# Ben Hazel's Learning Repository

This is my github Repository where I am learning powershell and other tools to further my IT Career. In this read me will be a log of my goals. This is mostly for me to keep track of what I learned and be able to look back on to see my progress.

# Progress Log

8/25/25 
<br>    - The first longterm goal I'd like to set is to understand powershell at a basic level and gain the ability to automate more of the tasks I repeatedly do. First project to bang my head aginst is to run DISM and SFC scans through a .ps1 script. Not the most usefull but should hopefully help me get the basics of how to call a command like that
<br>    - I reorganized my GitHub Repo and seperated out the old files into folders. Setup github remote repo on VSCode and installed all my needed extensions. Turns out you have to clone the repo as PS run+debug doesn't run through remote repo. Got the PS extension working on work computer through threatlocker in a safe manner by adding an exclusion that had the conditions that it was in a specific folder and created by my VSCode client.(With aproval of manager)
<br>    -Created a quick hello world script to test.
<br><br>
8/26/25
<br>    - Created a script that runs the dism and SFC scans consecutively then leaves a notification and ends. Learned about the run-process command and how to use file path or just shortened title. learned about run-process different modifiers like -runAs to run as admin.  -argument list allows me to input commands that a certain program might request. Have to find documentation for what arguments can be input can also try the /? parameter if its supported
<br>    - Created a script to run the disk cleanup tool with all option selected and then automatically close it. The automatically close it part was what ended up being more difficult as the running it is a single line of code. Learned about the get-process command which was fun, it has lots of different modifiers/parameters. Ended up using the mainwindowtitle as the end result screen would be different than the actual cleaning program. used a while loop to check it until done. Maybe later I'll check to see if there is a more efficient way to do this as right now I think it just spams it really fast until it finds what its looking for.
<br>    - Added a whole bunch to the cleanup script including recycle/downloads cleanup, defrag/trim, and got it working with the wise cleaners. With that the last 2 steps of our checklist should be automated. Also discovered how to auto elevate a sript. Just check to see if launched as admin then startprocess with -verb -RunAs. 
<br>    - Made a PCInfo Script that just pulls all the most needed information about a computer, name,ip,serial number etc. Hoping to use that to replace the third party program we use and add it to a full script to automate out that part of our checklist.
<br>    - created a full cleanup-tuneup script. I've seperated out all the scripts ive made so far into functions to be able to easily call them and then set up a quick little interactive gui to select what someone wants to use and to use them all. Will see if I want continue expanding on this or leave this as our one click cleanup tuneup. Right now it eliminates the last 3 steps of our new pc setup checklist :)
<br><br>
8/27/25
<br>    - I think I'd like to see if I could fit the entire MSP Client: New PC Setup checklist into a script. Or at least see how much I can fit into one. Some of it will probably be less intuitive or slower than just doing it through gui but I'll be able to eliminate those once I find it. I think I'll just go down the checklist and see what I can put into script instead.
<br>    - Finished the script that creates a txt file with all the info that the IT Glue Checklist requests. During this I learned that variables in a function are only visible within it unless given a specific scope, in this case script. If I do this I have to define the variables scope both in the function and outside of it for it to work. If I am going to be using lots of functions it would be best to make a "header" where all the variables are defined at the start.
<br>    - Started on a script to do the settings adjustments that the checklist has, this should be an extensive one and will work together with the data discovery and inputs that the ITgluetxt script has. Started with changing name/description of the computer and turning off bitlocker.
<br><br>
8/28/25
<br>    - Did a first pass with the Setcompsettings script. Does the majority of them now. Learned about loading a reg profile to be able to regedit settings for users other than the one logged in. Created the fullsetup script that has everything so far for replacing out IT Glue new client setup checklist. Still a while to go but the next goal is to try and get applications installed through powershell.
<br>    -Got started on a script for installing everything. Started that out with installing our RMM. Learned about the switch statement to replace having a million ifs. Fell into this because the else statement was always being triggered and wasn't sure why. I think it associates with the most recent if? 
<br><br>
9/4/25
<br>    - Created a lot. Finished up the compsettings script, downloads setting and started to compile them all into the full setup. It is getting pretty close to the max of what I can do on the list with just powershell. I also think some of what I've put in is best done with some other form of automation but it was fun learning. Did a lot of regedit, calling URLS and using winget. Definitely a bit of a gap in my log here as I was just adding commit messages instead. Need to start looking for other things to try and optimize in our processes as I think adding more to the full setup will have diminishing returns. Looking for an opurtunity to try it out though. I did learn a lot and feel alot more comfortable about doing any given task in powershell, once you have the logic put together its just a matter of finding a doc page with the right syntax for any command. 
<br><br>
9/5/25
<br>    -Managed to setup the script to have the taskbar setup like we want. Ended up being oddly complicated but did teach me a lot. Had to learn to read through an XML file, then made one with the settings I wanted and finally make powershell manually create a copy of it that works in the folder, since I dont want to upload it anywhere and try to install it like that. This way the script does it all. I also learned a bit on how windows handles user creation. Turns out its just got some default files with settings that it pulls from each time a user is created, which is what I am editing. Because of that the xml file has to be created pretty much before anything else, so that hope fully it pulls from that for creation. This does mean there might be a problem if the apps aren't installed before the user is created. I'll have to give that a test when I get the chance, It should be possible to have the installers run first and make them computer wide rather than user as I believe the calls in the XML file go for app ID and not a specific location.
<br><br>
9/8/25 
<br>    - Bit of a pivot over the weekend and today. Wanted to try my hand working on the [Cloud Resume Challenge](https://cloudresumechallenge.dev/docs/the-challenge/azure/). That means a shift to trying out html/css. It recommends trying to put your own resume onto a site through azure. So to start I needed to transfer my old resume into an HTML file. Sorted that out and installed a live preview add on to view it.
<br>    -Had to adjust the file to be mostly divs, to handle the new CSS files components. Probably couldve handled it differently but having a bunch of divs with custom named classes felt the most familiar to me. Added some formatting to make it look just like my google doc/pdf version. Maybe I can improve on it. Was pretty neat to give the basics of html a try though, probably gonna fiddle around with it to see what I can't make more interactive or eye catching for when the day comes that I need to start applying with it. Now that I've got a basic webpage with the resume, next up is to figure out how to publicly host it off of azure.
<br><br>
9/9/25
<br>    - I deployed my resume to a static azure blob. When heading to do the CDN step it looks like the CRC site might be out of date? as the Azure CDN is going to be deprecated and doesn't allow creation of new profiles. Looks like I could go with the azure web app route but I am unsure if that goes against the nature of the challenge by simplifying things and reducing what I would learn. Here is my [resume website] (https://bghcloudresumesite.z13.web.core.windows.net/) 
<br><br>
9/10/25
<br>    - Made a new folder for my just for fun scripts. I figure it also counts as learning even if not particularly relevant to my job. Just made 2 scripts using AHK and converted them to exe. All they do is listen for a keystroke then play a beep after a certain amount of time. Just something I thought of for use in an old game I play.
<br><br>
9/18/25
<br>    - Been real busy at work so side projects had to be benched for a while. Did a bit of work today and found a way to add a check for internet connection. Should stop the script before anything else happens unless the computer is connected to internet. Should make it so no errors happen due to lack of internet connection(like failed downloads)
<br><br>
9/30/25
<br>    - Still real busy so this stuff was very much on the backburner. Made a few small edits that weren't worth updating the log, but I had a fairly open day today though so go some work done. Decided to try and compile a toolbox that can be automatically downloaded onto a computer with a single script. Did this by using invoke-webrequest and a list txt to download from my github page. Learned how to parse the txt file using the get-content command, and filter out things I don't want. I've gotten better at understanding the logic of powershell that made this a lot faster than previous new projects. The toolbox has a list file with each script and a description, then when ran downloads all the most recent ones from github. I think I might try to add it to windows scheduler? if not then its simple to add it to the RMM but it would be neat to have it setup to do all natively windows to constantly pull the most recent version of the toolbox.
<br><br>
10/8/25
<br>    - Been some various small edits to the full script as I've had the chance to test it out on some computers. Main issue is initializing and loading hte registry of the newly created user. It also doesn't seem to recognize HKU when I ran it last. Also created an install script for parsec so that we dont have anyone mistakenly downloading per user instead of per computer as that forces us to remote in to end users computers to wake them up.